doc/reference/system/backup.md, before:

# Backup/Restore

IncusOS can perform a system-level backup of its configuration and state. This backup can then be restored at a later point in time. Additionally, a full factory reset can be performed which will bring IncusOS back to a clean state as if it had just been installed.

```{important}
The system-level backup doesn't include information from any installed applications. Each application has its own backup/restore functionality which can be used in conjunction with the system-level backup to perform a comprehensive system backup.
```

## Backup

```{important}
An IncusOS backup will contain its current state as well as copies of the encryption key(s) for any storage pool(s). As such, the backup should not be stored in any publicly-accessible location.
```

Create the backup by running

```
incus admin os system backup backup.tar.gz
```

## Restore

```{warning}
Restoring a backup will overwrite any existing OS-level state and potentially one or more encryption keys. As such, use caution when restoring.
```

### Configuration options

The following "skip" options can be set when restoring a backup:

* `encryption-recovery-keys`: Don't overwrite any existing main system drive encryption recovery keys.

* `local-data-encryption-key`: Don't overwrite the `local` storage pool's encryption key.

* `network-macs`: Don't use any hard-coded MACs from the backup, but rather attempt to determine the proper MACs from the existing interfaces.

### Examples

Restore the backup by running

```
incus admin os system restore backup.tar.gz
```

## Factory reset

```{warning}
A factory reset will erase all data on the main system drive. This includes any installed applications, their configuration and the system-level state and configuration.

User-created storage pools will be untouched, but will be unable to be imported when the system reboots. Be certain you have a copy of each storage pool's encryption key __before__ performing the factory reset.
```

### Configuration options

The following configuration options can be set when performing a factory reset:

* `allow_tpm_reset_failure`: If `true`, ignore failures when resetting TPM state.

* `seeds`: A map of seeds to write to the seed partition just before rebooting the system. This can be useful to change/update existing seed data when the system configures itself after booting.

* `wipe_existing_seeds`: If `true`, wipe any existing seed data that may be present in the seed partition.

### Examples

Perform a basic reset that will reuse any existing seed data by running

```
incus admin os system factory-reset
```

Perform a reset that allows TPM failure, wipes any existing seeds, and configures a basic Incus application upon reboot by running

```
incus admin os system factory-reset -d '{"allow_tpm_reset_failure":true,"wipe_existing_seeds":true,"seeds":{"incus":{"apply_defaults":true}}}'
```

Commit message:

doc/reference/system: Add links to API configuration structs
Signed-off-by: Mathias Gibbens <mathias.gibbens@futurfusion.io>

doc/reference/system/backup.md, after:

# Backup/Restore

IncusOS can perform a system-level backup of its configuration and state. This backup can then be restored at a later point in time. Additionally, a full factory reset can be performed which will bring IncusOS back to a clean state as if it had just been installed.

```{important}
The system-level backup doesn't include information from any installed applications. Each application has its own backup/restore functionality which can be used in conjunction with the system-level backup to perform a comprehensive system backup.
```

## Backup

```{important}
An IncusOS backup will contain its current state as well as copies of the encryption key(s) for any storage pool(s). As such, the backup should not be stored in any publicly-accessible location.
```

Create the backup by running

```
incus admin os system backup backup.tar.gz
```

## Restore

```{warning}
Restoring a backup will overwrite any existing OS-level state and potentially one or more encryption keys. As such, use caution when restoring.
```

### Configuration options

The following "skip" options can be set when restoring a backup:

* `encryption-recovery-keys`: Don't overwrite any existing main system drive encryption recovery keys.

* `local-data-encryption-key`: Don't overwrite the `local` storage pool's encryption key.

* `network-macs`: Don't use any hard-coded MACs from the backup, but rather attempt to determine the proper MACs from the existing interfaces.

### Examples

Restore the backup by running

```
incus admin os system restore backup.tar.gz
```

## Factory reset

```{warning}
A factory reset will erase all data on the main system drive. This includes any installed applications, their configuration and the system-level state and configuration.

User-created storage pools will be untouched, but will be unable to be imported when the system reboots. Be certain you have a copy of each storage pool's encryption key __before__ performing the factory reset.
```

### Configuration options

Configuration fields are defined in the [`SystemReset` struct](https://github.com/lxc/incus-os/blob/main/incus-osd/api/system_reset.go).

The following configuration options can be set when performing a factory reset:

* `allow_tpm_reset_failure`: If `true`, ignore failures when resetting TPM state.

* `seeds`: A map of seeds to write to the seed partition just before rebooting the system. This can be useful to change/update existing seed data when the system configures itself after booting.

* `wipe_existing_seeds`: If `true`, wipe any existing seed data that may be present in the seed partition.

### Examples

Perform a basic reset that will reuse any existing seed data by running

```
incus admin os system factory-reset
```

Perform a reset that allows TPM failure, wipes any existing seeds, and configures a basic Incus application upon reboot by running

```
incus admin os system factory-reset -d '{"allow_tpm_reset_failure":true,"wipe_existing_seeds":true,"seeds":{"incus":{"apply_defaults":true}}}'
```
