doc/rest-api.md, before:

# Incus OS API

**WARNING** The Incus OS API is not yet considered stable and may change in ways that
are not backwards compatible.

## REST endpoints

  * `/1.0`
  
    `GET`: Returns the system's hostname, OS name, and OS version
 
  * `/1.0/applications`
  
    `GET`: Returns a list of installed application endpoints
  
  * `/1.0/applications/{name}`
  
    `GET`: Returns application-specific status and/or configuration information
  
  * `/1.0/debug`
  
    `GET`: Returns a list of debug endpoints
  
  * `/1.0/debug/log`
  
    `GET`: Returns systemd journal entries, optionally filtering by unit, boot number, and
    number of return entries
  
  * `/1.0/services`
  
    `GET`: Returns a list of service endpoints
  
  * `/1.0/services/{name}`
  
    `GET`: Returns service-specific status and/or configuration information
    
    `POST`: Update a service's configuration
  
  * `/1.0/system`
  
    `PUT`: Perform a system-wide action
      - `shutdown`, `poweroff`, `reboot`: Self-descriptive
      - `reset_encryption_bindings`: Force-reset TPM encryption bindings; intended only for
      use if it was required to enter a recovery passphrase to boot the system
  
  * `/1.0/system/network`
  
    `GET`: Return the current network state
    
    `PATCH`: Update the current network configuration
    
    `PUT`: Replace the current network configuration
  
  * `/1.0/system/resources`
  
    `GET`: Returns a detailed low-level dump of the system's resources
  
  * `/1.0/system/security`
  
    `GET`: Returns information about the system's security state, such as Secure Boot and TPM
    status, encryption recovery keys, etc
    
    `PUT`: Add an encryption recovery passphrase
    
    `DELETE`: Remove an encryption recovery passphrase
  
  * `/1.0/system/storage`
  
    `DELETE`: Destroy a local storage pool
  
    `GET`: Returns information about drives present in the system and status of any local storage
    pools
    
    `PUT`: Create or update a local storage pool

  * `/1.0/system/storage/import`
  
    `POST`: Set the encryption key when importing an existing storage pool

  * `/1.0/system/storage/wipe`
  
    `POST`: Forcibly wipe all data from the specified drive
  
  * `/1.0/system/update`

    `GET`: Returns the current system update state
    
    `POST`: Trigger an immediate system update check
    
    `PUT`: Apply a new system update configuration

Commit message:

incus-osd/rest: Add system reset API endpoint
Signed-off-by: Mathias Gibbens <mathias.gibbens@futurfusion.io>

doc/rest-api.md, after:

# Incus OS API

**WARNING** The Incus OS API is not yet considered stable and may change in ways that
are not backwards compatible.

## REST endpoints

  * `/1.0`
  
    `GET`: Returns the system's hostname, OS name, and OS version
 
  * `/1.0/applications`
  
    `GET`: Returns a list of installed application endpoints
  
  * `/1.0/applications/{name}`
  
    `GET`: Returns application-specific status and/or configuration information
  
  * `/1.0/debug`
  
    `GET`: Returns a list of debug endpoints
  
  * `/1.0/debug/log`
  
    `GET`: Returns systemd journal entries, optionally filtering by unit, boot number, and
    number of return entries
  
  * `/1.0/services`
  
    `GET`: Returns a list of service endpoints
  
  * `/1.0/services/{name}`
  
    `GET`: Returns service-specific status and/or configuration information
    
    `POST`: Update a service's configuration
  
  * `/1.0/system`
  
    `PUT`: Perform a system-wide action
      - `shutdown`, `poweroff`, `reboot`: Self-descriptive
      - `reset_encryption_bindings`: Force-reset TPM encryption bindings; intended only for
      use if it was required to enter a recovery passphrase to boot the system
  
  * `/1.0/system/network`
  
    `GET`: Return the current network state
    
    `PATCH`: Update the current network configuration
    
    `PUT`: Replace the current network configuration

  * `/1.0/system/reset`
  
    `POST`: Perform a complete factory reset of the system and immediately reboot. An
    optional number of seed configurations may also be provided, which will be used
    when the system starts up into its fresh state.
    
  * `/1.0/system/resources`
  
    `GET`: Returns a detailed low-level dump of the system's resources
  
  * `/1.0/system/security`
  
    `GET`: Returns information about the system's security state, such as Secure Boot and TPM
    status, encryption recovery keys, etc
    
    `PUT`: Add an encryption recovery passphrase
    
    `DELETE`: Remove an encryption recovery passphrase
  
  * `/1.0/system/storage`
  
    `DELETE`: Destroy a local storage pool
  
    `GET`: Returns information about drives present in the system and status of any local storage
    pools
    
    `PUT`: Create or update a local storage pool

  * `/1.0/system/storage/import`
  
    `POST`: Set the encryption key when importing an existing storage pool

  * `/1.0/system/storage/wipe`
  
    `POST`: Forcibly wipe all data from the specified drive
  
  * `/1.0/system/update`

    `GET`: Returns the current system update state
    
    `POST`: Trigger an immediate system update check
    
    `PUT`: Apply a new system update configuration
