doc/getting-started/access.md, before:

# Accessing the system

```{note}
These instructions assume IncusOS deployed with the Incus application.

When using it with Operations Center or Migration Manager, use their respective command line client or web UI instead.
```

## Getting the IP address
The first step in accessing an IncusOS system is by finding its IP address.
This can be done by looking at the bottom of the screen on the running system.

![IncusOS running screen](../images/incusos-started.png)

The documentation below uses `192.0.2.100` as the IP address of the IncusOS system.

## Connecting to IncusOS

````{tabs}

```{group-tab} Command line
After the install completes, you will be shown a list of IP addresses in the
network configuration footer. Pick one and add IncusOS as a remote Incus
server:

    $ incus remote add IncusOS 192.0.2.100
    Certificate fingerprint: 80d569e9244a421f3a3d60d46631eb717f8a0a480f2f23ee729a4c1c016875f7
    ok (y/n/[fingerprint])? y

    $ incus remote list
    +-----------------+------------------------------------+---------------+-------------+--------+--------+--------+
    |      NAME       |                URL                 |   PROTOCOL    |  AUTH TYPE  | PUBLIC | STATIC | GLOBAL |
    +-----------------+------------------------------------+---------------+-------------+--------+--------+--------+
    | IncusOS         | https://192.0.2.100:8443           | incus         | tls         | NO     | NO     | NO     |
    +-----------------+------------------------------------+---------------+-------------+--------+--------+--------+
    | images          | https://images.linuxcontainers.org | simplestreams | none        | YES    | NO     | NO     |
    +-----------------+------------------------------------+---------------+-------------+--------+--------+--------+
    | local (current) | unix://                            | incus         | file access | NO     | YES    | NO     |
    +-----------------+------------------------------------+---------------+-------------+--------+--------+--------+

Once the remote is added, you can interact with it like any other Incus server:

    $ incus launch images:debian/trixie IncusOS:trixie
    Launching trixie

    $ incus list
    +---------------+---------+------------------------+--------------------------------------------------+-----------------+-----------+
    |     NAME      |  STATE  |          IPV4          |                       IPV6                       |      TYPE       | SNAPSHOTS |
    +---------------+---------+------------------------+--------------------------------------------------+-----------------+-----------+
    | test-incus-os | RUNNING | 10.25.170.1 (incusbr0) | fd42:612d:f700:5f6e::1 (incusbr0)                | VIRTUAL-MACHINE | 0         |
    |               |         | 192.0.2.100 (enp5s0)   | fd42:3cfb:8972:3990:1266:6aff:feab:9439 (enp5s0) |                 |           |
    +---------------+---------+------------------------+--------------------------------------------------+-----------------+-----------+

    $ incus list IncusOS:
    +--------+---------+----------------------+------------------------------------------------+-----------+-----------+
    |  NAME  |  STATE  |         IPV4         |                      IPV6                      |   TYPE    | SNAPSHOTS |
    +--------+---------+----------------------+------------------------------------------------+-----------+-----------+
    | trixie | RUNNING | 10.25.170.218 (eth0) | fd42:612d:f700:5f6e:1266:6aff:fe39:d31f (eth0) | CONTAINER | 0         |
    +--------+---------+----------------------+------------------------------------------------+-----------+-----------+
```

```{group-tab} Web interface
The Incus UI is also available for web access.

For this to work, the client certificate provided at image creation time
must be imported as a user certificate in your web browser.

The exact process to do this varies between browsers and operating
systems, but generally involves generating a PKCS#12 certificate from
the separate `client.crt` and `client.key`, then importing that in the
web browser's certificate store.

Once this is done, you can access the UI at `https://192.0.2.100:8443`

![Incus UI with running instances](../images/incus-webui-instances.png)
```

````

## Fetching the encryption recovery key

IncusOS will warn you if you haven't retrieved the encryption recovery key.
You can do so with the following command. Make sure to store the key someplace
safe!

```{note}
This step is currently only possible through the command line client.
```

```
$ incus admin os system security show
WARNING: The IncusOS API and configuration is subject to change

config:
  encryption_recovery_keys:
  - fkrjjenn-tbtjbjgh-jtvvchjr-ctienevu-crknfkvi-vjlvblhl-kbneribu-htjtldch
state:
  encrypted_volumes:
  - state: unlocked (TPM)
    volume: root
  - state: unlocked (TPM)
    volume: swap
  encryption_recovery_keys_retrieved: true
  pool_recovery_keys:
    local: F7zrtdHEaivKqofZbVFs2EeANyK77DbLi6Z8sqYVhr0=
  secure_boot_certificates:
  - fingerprint: 26dce4dbb3de2d72bd16ae91a85cfeda84535317d3ee77e0d4b2d65e714cf111
    issuer: CN=Incus OS - Secure Boot E1,O=Linux Containers
    subject: CN=Incus OS - Secure Boot PK R1,O=Linux Containers
    type: PK
  - fingerprint: 9a42866f496834bde7e1b26a862b1e1b6dea7b78b91a948aecfc4e6ef79ea6c1
    issuer: CN=Incus OS - Secure Boot E1,O=Linux Containers
    subject: CN=Incus OS - Secure Boot KEK R1,O=Linux Containers
    type: KEK
  - fingerprint: 21b6f423cf80fe6c436dfea0683460312f276debe2a14285bfdc22da2d00fc20
    issuer: CN=Incus OS - Secure Boot E1,O=Linux Containers
    subject: CN=Incus OS - Secure Boot 2025 R1,O=Linux Containers
    type: db
  - fingerprint: 2243c49fcf6f84fe670f100ecafa801389dc207536cb9ca87aa2c062ddebfde5
    issuer: CN=Incus OS - Secure Boot E1,O=Linux Containers
    subject: CN=Incus OS - Secure Boot 2026 R1,O=Linux Containers
    type: db
  secure_boot_enabled: true
  tpm_status: ok

```

Commit message:

doc/getting-started/access: Add tip about generating a PKCS#12 certificate
Signed-off-by: Mathias Gibbens <mathias.gibbens@futurfusion.io>

doc/getting-started/access.md, after:

# Accessing the system

```{note}
These instructions assume IncusOS deployed with the Incus application.

When using it with Operations Center or Migration Manager, use their respective command line client or web UI instead.
```

## Getting the IP address
The first step in accessing an IncusOS system is by finding its IP address.
This can be done by looking at the bottom of the screen on the running system.

![IncusOS running screen](../images/incusos-started.png)

The documentation below uses `192.0.2.100` as the IP address of the IncusOS system.

## Connecting to IncusOS

`````{tabs}

````{group-tab} Command line
After the install completes, you will be shown a list of IP addresses in the
network configuration footer. Pick one and add IncusOS as a remote Incus
server:

    $ incus remote add IncusOS 192.0.2.100
    Certificate fingerprint: 80d569e9244a421f3a3d60d46631eb717f8a0a480f2f23ee729a4c1c016875f7
    ok (y/n/[fingerprint])? y

    $ incus remote list
    +-----------------+------------------------------------+---------------+-------------+--------+--------+--------+
    |      NAME       |                URL                 |   PROTOCOL    |  AUTH TYPE  | PUBLIC | STATIC | GLOBAL |
    +-----------------+------------------------------------+---------------+-------------+--------+--------+--------+
    | IncusOS         | https://192.0.2.100:8443           | incus         | tls         | NO     | NO     | NO     |
    +-----------------+------------------------------------+---------------+-------------+--------+--------+--------+
    | images          | https://images.linuxcontainers.org | simplestreams | none        | YES    | NO     | NO     |
    +-----------------+------------------------------------+---------------+-------------+--------+--------+--------+
    | local (current) | unix://                            | incus         | file access | NO     | YES    | NO     |
    +-----------------+------------------------------------+---------------+-------------+--------+--------+--------+

Once the remote is added, you can interact with it like any other Incus server:

    $ incus launch images:debian/trixie IncusOS:trixie
    Launching trixie

    $ incus list
    +---------------+---------+------------------------+--------------------------------------------------+-----------------+-----------+
    |     NAME      |  STATE  |          IPV4          |                       IPV6                       |      TYPE       | SNAPSHOTS |
    +---------------+---------+------------------------+--------------------------------------------------+-----------------+-----------+
    | test-incus-os | RUNNING | 10.25.170.1 (incusbr0) | fd42:612d:f700:5f6e::1 (incusbr0)                | VIRTUAL-MACHINE | 0         |
    |               |         | 192.0.2.100 (enp5s0)   | fd42:3cfb:8972:3990:1266:6aff:feab:9439 (enp5s0) |                 |           |
    +---------------+---------+------------------------+--------------------------------------------------+-----------------+-----------+

    $ incus list IncusOS:
    +--------+---------+----------------------+------------------------------------------------+-----------+-----------+
    |  NAME  |  STATE  |         IPV4         |                      IPV6                      |   TYPE    | SNAPSHOTS |
    +--------+---------+----------------------+------------------------------------------------+-----------+-----------+
    | trixie | RUNNING | 10.25.170.218 (eth0) | fd42:612d:f700:5f6e:1266:6aff:fe39:d31f (eth0) | CONTAINER | 0         |
    +--------+---------+----------------------+------------------------------------------------+-----------+-----------+
````

````{group-tab} Web interface
The Incus UI is also available for web access.

For this to work, the client certificate provided at image creation time
must be imported as a user certificate in your web browser.

```{tip}
The exact process of adding a user certificate varies between browsers
and operating systems, but generally involves importing a PKCS#12 certificate
into the web browser's certificate store.

A PKCS#12 certificate can be generated from the Incus client key/certificate
pair by running

    openssl pkcs12 -export -inkey ~/.config/incus/client.key -in ~/.config/incus/client.crt -out ~/.config/incus/client.pfx
```

Once the user certificate is imported, you can access the UI at `https://192.0.2.100:8443`

![Incus UI with running instances](../images/incus-webui-instances.png)
````

`````

## Fetching the encryption recovery key

IncusOS will warn you if you haven't retrieved the encryption recovery key.
You can do so with the following command. Make sure to store the key someplace
safe!

```{note}
This step is currently only possible through the command line client.
```

```
$ incus admin os system security show
WARNING: The IncusOS API and configuration is subject to change

config:
  encryption_recovery_keys:
  - fkrjjenn-tbtjbjgh-jtvvchjr-ctienevu-crknfkvi-vjlvblhl-kbneribu-htjtldch
state:
  encrypted_volumes:
  - state: unlocked (TPM)
    volume: root
  - state: unlocked (TPM)
    volume: swap
  encryption_recovery_keys_retrieved: true
  pool_recovery_keys:
    local: F7zrtdHEaivKqofZbVFs2EeANyK77DbLi6Z8sqYVhr0=
  secure_boot_certificates:
  - fingerprint: 26dce4dbb3de2d72bd16ae91a85cfeda84535317d3ee77e0d4b2d65e714cf111
    issuer: CN=Incus OS - Secure Boot E1,O=Linux Containers
    subject: CN=Incus OS - Secure Boot PK R1,O=Linux Containers
    type: PK
  - fingerprint: 9a42866f496834bde7e1b26a862b1e1b6dea7b78b91a948aecfc4e6ef79ea6c1
    issuer: CN=Incus OS - Secure Boot E1,O=Linux Containers
    subject: CN=Incus OS - Secure Boot KEK R1,O=Linux Containers
    type: KEK
  - fingerprint: 21b6f423cf80fe6c436dfea0683460312f276debe2a14285bfdc22da2d00fc20
    issuer: CN=Incus OS - Secure Boot E1,O=Linux Containers
    subject: CN=Incus OS - Secure Boot 2025 R1,O=Linux Containers
    type: db
  - fingerprint: 2243c49fcf6f84fe670f100ecafa801389dc207536cb9ca87aa2c062ddebfde5
    issuer: CN=Incus OS - Secure Boot E1,O=Linux Containers
    subject: CN=Incus OS - Secure Boot 2026 R1,O=Linux Containers
    type: db
  secure_boot_enabled: true
  tpm_status: ok

```
