doc/reference/security.md, before:

# System security
IncusOS actively relies on both UEFI Secure Boot and TPM for its boot security and encryption.

## Assumptions

- Prior to installing IncusOS, Secure Boot on the server will be placed into Setup mode.
   - If a specific PK or third-party db certificates are required, configuration of the PK/KEK/db certificates must be performed prior to starting the IncusOS install.
   - If no PK/KEK/db certificates are present, IncusOS will auto-enroll the Secure Boot certificates as part of the install.
- Post-install Secure Boot will run in User mode. This will allow IncusOS to automatically apply db and dbx updates that have been signed by an IncusOS KEK certificate. If the IncusOS PK key is enrolled, we could also update the KEK keys, although this is expected to be an incredibly rare operation.
   - Alternatively, if Secure Boot is in Deployed mode, db/dbx/KEK key updates will have to be applied out-of-band by IT staff. This will likely be an unsupported configuration.
- A new IncusOS Secure Boot Key will be created for each year and published well in advance.
   - Keys will be valid for 18-24 months (TDB) to allow time for rollover. Secure Boot doesn't actually check expiry of certificates, but there is a simple check in `incus-osd` prior to applying an OS update.
   - The first release of IncusOS after January 1st will pickup and use the new year's signing certificate. Some time after that has happened, the prior year's certificate can be invalidated and an update placing that certificate into dbx can be published via API.

## Certificate hierarchy
IncusOS relies on a hierarchy of TLS certificate authorities and certificates as shown below. Note that Secure Boot doesn't perform TLS-style validation of the certificates.

- The IncusOS Root and Secure Boot CAs use latest standards (ECDSA, etc).
- IncusOS PK, KEK, and db certificates are limited to RSA 2048 due to the Secure Boot standard. Each Secure Boot certificate is signed by the IncusOS Secure Boot CA.

```
    Incus OS - Root E1
          |
    Incus OS - Secure Boot E1
          |
          \-- Incus OS - Secure Boot PK R1
           \-- Incus OS - Secure Boot KEK R1
            |-- Incus OS - Secure Boot 2025 R1
            \-- Incus OS - Secure Boot 2026 R1
```

## Use of Secure Boot variables

- PK: OEM/owner-provided or Incus OS - Secure Boot PK R1
- KEK: Incus OS - Secure Boot KEK R1
- db: IncusOS signing key(s)
   - A new signing key will be generated each year and published in advance
   - 6-12 month overlap after January 1st when new signing key is placed into service
- dbx: Old IncusOS signing key(s)
   - After sufficient time for key rotation, old IncusOS signing keys will be revoked
- MOK: (not used/supported in IncusOS setup)

### Implementation notes

- Updates to db and dbx can be signed offline with an enrolled KEK or PK key, then distributed and automatically applied on any system
   - Only replacing existing values or appending are supported
   - Removal of a specific value requires local access to the KEK or PK private key
- Updates to KEK can be signed offline with an enrolled PK key, and then distributed like db and dbx updates
   - If IncusOS PK isn't present, KEK updates will have to be applied out-of-band
   - KEK updates are expected to be extremely rare
- IncusOS will receive db/dbx/KEK updates via the configured Provider in a similar manner to OS and application updates
- An update to IncusOS signed with a key not yet in the db or present in dbx will not be allowed to install, since on reboot the system would refuse to boot the new image
- Updating a trusted signing key and applying an IncusOS update will be two distinct operations, with a reboot in between. This is because updating Secure Boot state and expected TPM PCR values is critical to get right, and it's much simpler logic to only allow one change (a new trusted key or an update with a changed signing key) at a time.

## Secure Boot key updates
KEK, db, and dbx updates are signed offline and then made available via a Provider's API:

- Published as a simple list of `.auth` files, with one update per file
- Filename pattern of `<VAR>_<SHA256 fingerprint>.auth`: `db_8A78635EA12B2EF676045B661187E08D1412253220A1BD02EF79D177302DB83F.auth`, `dbx_DA39EF49E3F5D7B902ECE6CA338883623F61DC671ABE10DF2E7B1CBDEC4A2B47.auth`, etc
   - This naming convention makes it trivial for a client to quickly retrieve a list of all available keys, identify any missing ones, and then download needed updates
- Update check performed on same cadence as OS update checks (every six hours by default):
   - Apply each UEFI variable update one at a time, starting with KEK, then db, then dbx
   - Will need to reboot after each update; will automatically reboot if update applied during IncusOS startup, otherwise will require a user triggering a reboot
   - Will not apply a dbx update if the current or backup image are signed by it to prevent bricking

### Update availability and integrity

- An attacker could block IncusOS update checks to prevent application of Secure Boot key updates
- Each `.auth` file is signed by a KEK certificate already enrolled on the machine IncusOS is running on. If the file is tampered with, enrollment will fail, so there is no special need to protect or checksum received updates.

## Use of TPM PCRs
IncusOS relies on three PCRs (4, 7 & 11) to bind disk encryption keys.

### PCR 4

```{note}
PCR 4 is only used on IncusOS systems where Secure Boot is disabled.
```

PCR 4 is computed based on the Portable Executable (PE) binaries involved in the boot process. For IncusOS, this includes the `systemd-boot` stub and the system UKI image. The UEFI computes the final value of this PCR by hashing the authenticode of each PE binary. The corresponding TPM event log entry contains additional information about the PE binary, such as its UEFI path, size, etc.

When IncusOS is configured to run with Secure Boot disabled, we cannot rely on PCR 7 containing useful data. Even if it is populated, we cannot trust its contents. Therefore, we add PCR 4 to the list of values that the disk encryption is bound to. This provides some measure of assurance that the disk is only automatically unlocked if we boot the expected IncusOS install.

Combined with IncusOS performing an early boot verification of the TPM PCR 4 event log and binary signatures, if IncusOS can automatically unlock the encrypted disks when starting we can be fairly confident that IncusOS hasn't been tampered with even when Secure Boot is disabled.

### PCR 7
PCR 7 is computed based on the current Secure Boot state and PK/KEK/db/dbx values. The final value of this PCR is calculated by UEFI before the `systemd-boot` UEFI stub starts. Binding to this PCR allows us to ensure data is only available when Secure Boot is enabled and IncusOS certificates are present. (Prevents an attacker from unlocking the disk on a different machine or launching attacks via live boot media.)

The calculation of PCR 7 is straightforward, and performed whenever a signing key is added or revoked, and when an IncusOS update is signed with a different key than the current running system:

- Fetch TPM event log and verify that the recomputed PCR 7 value matches the current TPM PCR 7 value
- Apply UEFI variable update
- Replay TPM event log, computing the future PCR 7 value using current UEFI variable values
- Use current TPM state to update PCR 7 binding of LUKS volumes using predicted PCR 7 value on next boot

### PCR 11
PCR 11 is computed based on the running UKI, and computed at various points during the boot process. Combined with a properly signed UKI image, this allows us to detect any tampering of the UKI and refuse to unlock the encrypted disks. Computation of PCR 11 is complex; systemd has `systemd-measure` which we rely on to create the PCR 11 policy which is combined with the Secure Boot signing key to bind the TPM. The advantage is that this approach is much more flexible than an exact hash binding like we do with PCR 7, and allows the build process to fully predict PCR 11 values and embed those values into the resulting signed UKI images.

IncusOS only ever needs to worry about re-binding PCR 11 when the Secure Boot key used by an UKI is changed, such as the yearly key transition. This is because the PCR 11 policies are bound to the TPM using the current Secure Boot signing key, and if it changes on reboot the TPM state won't match and auto-unlock will fail. The steps taken when installing an IncusOS update with a different Secure Boot key are:

- Verify the key of the updated UKI is present in the UEFI db variable, and isn't in dbx. This prevents installing an update which will immediately fail to boot with a Secure Boot policy violation.
- Replace the existing `systemd-boot` UEFI stub with a newly signed one from the pending OS update. `systemd-sysupdate` doesn't typically update the `systemd-boot` stub, but we need to ensure it's updated to a version signed by the new key.
- Changing the signature on the `systemd-boot` stub will affect the PCR 7 value at next boot, so follow the steps outlined above to predict the new PCR 7 value.
- Re-bind the TPM PCR 11 policies with the new signing certificate and predicted PCR 7 value. Doing this invalidates the current TPM state, so we must rely on a recovery key known to IncusOS to update the LUKS header. The update is performed in as an atomic process as possible, to prevent having the LUKS header in a state where it doesn't have a TPM enrolled.

### Implications
Any unexpected change to PCR values will cause auto-unlock to fail, and require the entry of a recovery password to boot the system. When a new Secure Boot key is used, after applying the update and rebooting, attempting to reboot into the backup image will always require the use of the recovery password. Attempting to apply a further OS update while running from the backup image will also very likely fail, since the TPM will be in an unusable state.

### Useful tools
systemd has `systemd-pcrlock` which is useful to inspect current PCR values and how they were computed during the boot process.

## Useful links

- [UEFI Specification - Creating trust relationships](https://uefi.org/specs/UEFI/2.11/32_Secure_Boot_and_Driver_Signing.html#firmware-os-key-exchange-creating-trust-relationships)
- [UEFI Specification - Signature database update](https://uefi.org/specs/UEFI/2.11/32_Secure_Boot_and_Driver_Signing.html#signature-database-update)
- [Microsoft - Updating Microsoft Secure Boot keys](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/blog/windows-itpro-blog/updating-microsoft-secure-boot-keys/4055324)

Commit message:

doc/reference/security: Attempt to clarify the PCR implications section
Signed-off-by: Mathias Gibbens <mathias.gibbens@futurfusion.io>

doc/reference/security.md, after:

# System security
IncusOS actively relies on both UEFI Secure Boot and TPM for its boot security and encryption.

## Assumptions

- Prior to installing IncusOS, Secure Boot on the server will be placed into Setup mode.
   - If a specific PK or third-party db certificates are required, configuration of the PK/KEK/db certificates must be performed prior to starting the IncusOS install.
   - If no PK/KEK/db certificates are present, IncusOS will auto-enroll the Secure Boot certificates as part of the install.
- Post-install Secure Boot will run in User mode. This will allow IncusOS to automatically apply db and dbx updates that have been signed by an IncusOS KEK certificate. If the IncusOS PK key is enrolled, we could also update the KEK keys, although this is expected to be an incredibly rare operation.
   - Alternatively, if Secure Boot is in Deployed mode, db/dbx/KEK key updates will have to be applied out-of-band by IT staff. This will likely be an unsupported configuration.
- A new IncusOS Secure Boot Key will be created for each year and published well in advance.
   - Keys will be valid for 18-24 months (TDB) to allow time for rollover. Secure Boot doesn't actually check expiry of certificates, but there is a simple check in `incus-osd` prior to applying an OS update.
   - The first release of IncusOS after January 1st will pickup and use the new year's signing certificate. Some time after that has happened, the prior year's certificate can be invalidated and an update placing that certificate into dbx can be published via API.

## Certificate hierarchy
IncusOS relies on a hierarchy of TLS certificate authorities and certificates as shown below. Note that Secure Boot doesn't perform TLS-style validation of the certificates.

- The IncusOS Root and Secure Boot CAs use latest standards (ECDSA, etc).
- IncusOS PK, KEK, and db certificates are limited to RSA 2048 due to the Secure Boot standard. Each Secure Boot certificate is signed by the IncusOS Secure Boot CA.

```
    Incus OS - Root E1
          |
    Incus OS - Secure Boot E1
          |
          \-- Incus OS - Secure Boot PK R1
           \-- Incus OS - Secure Boot KEK R1
            |-- Incus OS - Secure Boot 2025 R1
            \-- Incus OS - Secure Boot 2026 R1
```

## Use of Secure Boot variables

- PK: OEM/owner-provided or Incus OS - Secure Boot PK R1
- KEK: Incus OS - Secure Boot KEK R1
- db: IncusOS signing key(s)
   - A new signing key will be generated each year and published in advance
   - 6-12 month overlap after January 1st when new signing key is placed into service
- dbx: Old IncusOS signing key(s)
   - After sufficient time for key rotation, old IncusOS signing keys will be revoked
- MOK: (not used/supported in IncusOS setup)

### Implementation notes

- Updates to db and dbx can be signed offline with an enrolled KEK or PK key, then distributed and automatically applied on any system
   - Only replacing existing values or appending are supported
   - Removal of a specific value requires local access to the KEK or PK private key
- Updates to KEK can be signed offline with an enrolled PK key, and then distributed like db and dbx updates
   - If IncusOS PK isn't present, KEK updates will have to be applied out-of-band
   - KEK updates are expected to be extremely rare
- IncusOS will receive db/dbx/KEK updates via the configured Provider in a similar manner to OS and application updates
- An update to IncusOS signed with a key not yet in the db or present in dbx will not be allowed to install, since on reboot the system would refuse to boot the new image
- Updating a trusted signing key and applying an IncusOS update will be two distinct operations, with a reboot in between. This is because updating Secure Boot state and expected TPM PCR values is critical to get right, and it's much simpler logic to only allow one change (a new trusted key or an update with a changed signing key) at a time.

## Secure Boot key updates
KEK, db, and dbx updates are signed offline and then made available via a Provider's API:

- Published as a simple list of `.auth` files, with one update per file
- Filename pattern of `<VAR>_<SHA256 fingerprint>.auth`: `db_8A78635EA12B2EF676045B661187E08D1412253220A1BD02EF79D177302DB83F.auth`, `dbx_DA39EF49E3F5D7B902ECE6CA338883623F61DC671ABE10DF2E7B1CBDEC4A2B47.auth`, etc
   - This naming convention makes it trivial for a client to quickly retrieve a list of all available keys, identify any missing ones, and then download needed updates
- Update check performed on same cadence as OS update checks (every six hours by default):
   - Apply each UEFI variable update one at a time, starting with KEK, then db, then dbx
   - Will need to reboot after each update; will automatically reboot if update applied during IncusOS startup, otherwise will require a user triggering a reboot
   - Will not apply a dbx update if the current or backup image are signed by it to prevent bricking

### Update availability and integrity

- An attacker could block IncusOS update checks to prevent application of Secure Boot key updates
- Each `.auth` file is signed by a KEK certificate already enrolled on the machine IncusOS is running on. If the file is tampered with, enrollment will fail, so there is no special need to protect or checksum received updates.

## Use of TPM PCRs
IncusOS relies on three PCRs (4, 7 & 11) to bind disk encryption keys.

### PCR 4

```{note}
PCR 4 is only used on IncusOS systems where Secure Boot is disabled.
```

PCR 4 is computed based on the Portable Executable (PE) binaries involved in the boot process. For IncusOS, this includes the `systemd-boot` stub and the system UKI image. The UEFI computes the final value of this PCR by hashing the authenticode of each PE binary. The corresponding TPM event log entry contains additional information about the PE binary, such as its UEFI path, size, etc.

When IncusOS is configured to run with Secure Boot disabled, we cannot rely on PCR 7 containing useful data. Even if it is populated, we cannot trust its contents. Therefore, we add PCR 4 to the list of values that the disk encryption is bound to. This provides some measure of assurance that the disk is only automatically unlocked if we boot the expected IncusOS install.

Combined with IncusOS performing an early boot verification of the TPM PCR 4 event log and binary signatures, if IncusOS can automatically unlock the encrypted disks when starting we can be fairly confident that IncusOS hasn't been tampered with even when Secure Boot is disabled.

### PCR 7
PCR 7 is computed based on the current Secure Boot state and PK/KEK/db/dbx values. The final value of this PCR is calculated by UEFI before the `systemd-boot` UEFI stub starts. Binding to this PCR allows us to ensure data is only available when Secure Boot is enabled and IncusOS certificates are present. (Prevents an attacker from unlocking the disk on a different machine or launching attacks via live boot media.)

The calculation of PCR 7 is straightforward, and performed whenever a signing key is added or revoked, and when an IncusOS update is signed with a different key than the current running system:

- Fetch TPM event log and verify that the recomputed PCR 7 value matches the current TPM PCR 7 value
- Apply UEFI variable update
- Replay TPM event log, computing the future PCR 7 value using current UEFI variable values
- Use current TPM state to update PCR 7 binding of LUKS volumes using predicted PCR 7 value on next boot

### PCR 11
PCR 11 is computed based on the running UKI, and computed at various points during the boot process. Combined with a properly signed UKI image, this allows us to detect any tampering of the UKI and refuse to unlock the encrypted disks. Computation of PCR 11 is complex; systemd has `systemd-measure` which we rely on to create the PCR 11 policy at image build time which is then combined with the Secure Boot signing key to bind the TPM. The advantage is that this approach is much more flexible than an exact hash binding like we do with PCRs 4 & 7, and allows the build process to fully predict PCR 11 values and embed those values into the resulting signed UKI images.

IncusOS only ever needs to worry about re-binding PCR 11 when the Secure Boot key used by an UKI is changed, such as the yearly key transition. This is because the PCR 11 policies are bound to the TPM using the current Secure Boot signing key, and if it changes on reboot the TPM state won't match and auto-unlock will fail. The steps taken when installing an IncusOS update with a different Secure Boot key are:

- Verify the key of the updated UKI is present in the UEFI db variable, and isn't in dbx. This prevents installing an update which will immediately fail to boot with a Secure Boot policy violation.
- Replace the existing `systemd-boot` UEFI stub with a newly signed one from the pending OS update. `systemd-sysupdate` doesn't typically update the `systemd-boot` stub, but we need to ensure it's updated to a version signed by the new key.
- Changing the signature on the `systemd-boot` stub will affect the PCR 7 value at next boot, so follow the steps outlined above to predict the new PCR 7 value.
- Re-bind the TPM PCR 11 policies with the new signing certificate and predicted PCR 7 value. Doing this invalidates the current TPM state, so we must rely on a recovery key known to IncusOS to update the LUKS header. The update is performed in as an atomic process as possible, to prevent having the LUKS header in a state where it doesn't have a TPM enrolled.

### Implications
Any unexpected change to PCR values will cause auto-unlock to fail, and require the entry of a recovery password to boot the system. Such a change is a **strong** indication that something unexpected occurred to the system's security configuration outside of what IncusOS expected. It could be triggered by an innocuous change, or could point to malicious activity. In either case, be careful before blindly entering a recovery password at boot.

One other thing to be aware of involves the annual rotation of the Secure Boot key that is used to sign the IncusOS images. IncusOS will automatically handle the transition, but if for some reason you need to boot into the recovery image that was signed by the prior year's Secure Boot key you will need to use a recovery password to boot. This is because the `systemd-boot` stub will be signed with the new Secure Boot key, but the recovery UKI is signed by the old one. This will cause a mismatch between expected and actual PCR values. After a second update signed by the new Secure Boot key is installed, the issue goes away because both UKI images will be signed with the same one that was used to sign the `systemd-boot` stub.

### Useful tools
systemd has `systemd-pcrlock` which is useful to inspect current PCR values and how they were computed during the boot process.

## Useful links

- [UEFI Specification - Creating trust relationships](https://uefi.org/specs/UEFI/2.11/32_Secure_Boot_and_Driver_Signing.html#firmware-os-key-exchange-creating-trust-relationships)
- [UEFI Specification - Signature database update](https://uefi.org/specs/UEFI/2.11/32_Secure_Boot_and_Driver_Signing.html#signature-database-update)
- [Microsoft - Updating Microsoft Secure Boot keys](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/blog/windows-itpro-blog/updating-microsoft-secure-boot-keys/4055324)
